---
id: digital-proofs
title: Digital proofs
url: /digital-proofs/
status: exp
---

## Certificate transparency

Certificate Transparency [RFC6962](@rfc6962) is one of a number of possible
methods of proving the integrity of a register.

### Entry hash

The entry hash is the application of a supported hashing algorithm on the data
contained in the [Entry resource](/resources/entry-resource/). The [hash
datatype](/datatypes/hash/) of the entry, rather than the item itself ([Item
resource](/resources/item-resource/)), is part of the raw data hashed to
create the entry hash.

The entry hash is required for many operations in Certificate Transparency.

### Signed tree head

The signed tree head for a register is the tree-head-signature property of the
[Register proof resource](/resources/register-proof-resource/), where the
proof-identifier is specified as merkle:sha-256.

The signed tree head for a register is the signed Merkle tree root hash
([RFC6962](@rfc6962) section 2.1) of a Merkle tree containing all entries
in the register. The corresponding root-hash is also a property of the
[Register proof resource](/resources/register-proof-resource/).

### Verifying the register

To verify a register obtained from the [Download
resource](/resources/download/), a client must compute the Merkle tree root
hash from the complete list of raw [Entry
resource](/resources/entry-resource), as per [RFC6962](@rfc6962) section 2.1,
ensuring that it equals the root-hash of the [Register proof
resource](/resources/register-proof-resource/) and that the same [Signed tree
head](#signed-tree-head) can be generated by signing the root-hash against a
public key.

The client must also verify that for each <a href="#entry-resource">§3.2 Entry
resource</a> in the register there exists an item with the corresponding <a
href="#item-hash-datatype">§8.11 Item-hash datatype</a> and that the contents
of the item generate the correct <a href="#item-hash-datatype">§8.11 Item-hash
datatype</a>.

### Verifying an entry

The merkle-audit-path for the entry from the <a
href="#entry-proof-resource">§3.6 Entry proof resource</a> provides the
shortest list of additional nodes in the Merkle tree required to compute the
Merkle tree root hash.

To verify an entry exists in a register, given that total-entries of the <a
href="#entry-proof-resource">§3.6 Entry proof resource</a> equals the
total-entries of the <a href="#register-proof-resource">§3.5 Register proof
resource</a>, a client must combine the hash of the entry with each Merkle
tree node in the merkle-audit-path consecutively, as per <a
data-link-type="biblio" href="#biblio-rfc6962">[RFC6962]</a> section 2.1.1,
and verify that the resulting Merkle tree root hash is equal to the root-hash
of the <a href="#register-proof-resource">§3.5 Register proof resource</a>.
The client should also verify the <a href="#signed-tree-head">§12.1.2 Signed
tree head</a> against the computed root-hash using a public key.

### Verifying consistency

The merkle-consistency-nodes from the <a
href="#consistency-proof-resource">§3.7 Consistency proof resource</a> for two
versions of a register provides the list of nodes in the Merkle tree required
to verify that the first n entries (where n is the number of entries in the
smaller register) are equal in both registers.

To verify the consistency of two versions of a register, given that
total-entries-1 and total-entries-2 of the <a
href="#consistency-proof-resource">§3.7 Consistency proof resource</a> equal
the total-entries of each <a href="#register-proof-resource">§3.5 Register
proof resource</a>, the client must prove that the root-hash of the <a
href="#register-proof-resource">§3.5 Register proof resource</a> for the
larger register can be computed using the set of consistency-proof-nodes and
that the root-hash of the <a href="#register-proof-resource">§3.5 Register
proof resource</a> for the smaller register can be computed using a subset of
the same consistency-proof-nodes, as per <a data-link-type="biblio"
href="#biblio-rfc6962">[RFC6962]</a> section 2.1.2. The client must also
verify the corresponding <a href="#signed-tree-head">§12.1.2 Signed tree
head</a> against each root-hash using a public key.

### Verifying the records

***
TODO:
***

### Verifying a record

***
TODO:
***
